I Delta just to explain a little bit
about me in my background and that is
why Elton John can't have any more
parties on my boat
okay almost a series is that your parrot
a few miles south of double island point
as named by James Cook Aaron
Deauville island pointer stern was the
area's doing all the steering boats made
about five knots
power wind speed about eight and a half
knots and were sailing close reach
Aries wind vane best bit of gear we've
got on the boat we have the Aries lift
up number five very robust bit of gear
as you can see the pedals pushed over to
port and that's because it's been
twisted by the wooden vein at the top so
basically wind blows on this white board
that you can see here and that movements
transmitted down that rod and onto the
panel which twists it the water flow
then goes past the pedal forcing it to
the left or to the right or port or
starboard and that's transmitted through
these lines here and off the steering
wheel and it steers the boat very
ingenious your boat course is governed
by the direction of the wings so if the
wind comes around by 10 degrees then
your boat will come around by 10 degrees
but out in the open water the winds
always fairly steady in its direction
you can steer a very accurate course and
it never gets tired and it never gets
bored great bit of gear power wind speed
about eight point six knots but I'll
steer the boat down to half that power
wind speed if your problem set on the
electric one squirt it was any oil to
keep it lubricated engine all do use
spectral lines between the Aries and the
wheel steering it improves it knowing
who keeps tension on the lines all the
time as was all wind vanes that you use
and you need to have the boat pole
bouncing obviously the main is the sail
you'd adjust either by reefing or
letting it out of it the main issues was
Aries is make sure the whole thing is
assembled properly this includes the
cogs are aligned correctly easy to put
wrong the rod is on the right way it can
go one of two ways and the counterweight
faces into the wind
you shouldn't add weights to the paddle
like a lot of people have done that
we'll go back most of the time to not
being assembled properly
the previous owner hadn't assembled it
properly and that's why their weight was
on the paddle and once it was all back
together it worked perfectly from day
one
you
the great advantage of Aries you can get
rid of grumpy crew
spoken by dolls authorized by some
government camera